# David Higueros: Curiosity Report: Non-standard Hacking devices and strategies

During the Failure Management portion of the course, something that was mentioned was interesting, about some things hackers might do to find vulnerabilities in systems that have them, but what was interesting was the mention of using devices that aren't common or even regular laptops or PCs. I looked into the topic deeper to try to find some devices that might be used and how, as well as techniques that hackers use to utilize these devices as much as they do for attacks.

## Devices used

Before investigating the topic, I was expecting to find devices that were somewhat outrageous and extremely unusual and therefore not even easily considered for attacks of this type. However, it seems most devices used are ones that are somewhat common in the marketplace. Some of these devices are SBCs, or Single-Board Computers, like Raspberry Pi, or Microcontrollers like Arduino chips, both of which are mostly used to connect to the internet and run scripts mostly autonomously.

However, after those, devices get more interesting, starting with simple Burner Phones and smartphones. Phones currently are so advanced that even the less advanced phones of the modern age can provide a lot of utility in connecting to the internet and even being able to run entire Operating Systems within them. Of course, a phone doesn't have to be a smartphone to be able to be useful, as even older models of phones made as early as 1996 could be used to browse the web directly. The first of these phones was the Nokia 9000 Communicator released in the year mentioned earlier. As such, almost any phone released in the 2000s can be modified to utilize its hardware and inject malicious software to execute internet requests with less consistent tracking and easier disposability.

Another device used is an inconspicuous USB which is then left alone at seemingly random locations. These USB sticks are, of course, not just simple flash drives, and act as payload injectors to whatever device they're plugged in unsafely. Some of these devices don't even try to appear as flash drives but as almost any other device usually connected via USB, like a keyboard. Some might not even inject a payload but simply use the fact that they're connected to a host to execute commands on its own, making it so hacks done by one user are done on completely unrelated and often innocent host devices without the host's permission or interaction.

The more outrageous type of devices used is what is known as a portable router. While they are small and portable, it's still just a router and is used as a router. However, what this means is that the router controls all traffic going through it, and could potentially be used for harm. Perhaps speaking more from experience, but I believe routers like these is the reason people are often adviced to not connect to any public WiFi source that isn't of immediate trust or provides validation. However, some hackers use the routers for themselves to provide more and more layers of anonymity to requests they may make through them.

In my research, I was also able to find an online store dedicated to selling tools specifically for penetration testing and other hacking tools mentioned earlier. The store, just called [Hak5](https://shop.hak5.org), sells everything from cables and USBs to routers to even full field kits with everything prepared for attacks. The website also offers books and courses on using some of the tools sold and techniques generally used in hacking.

While I could not really find devices that were extremely crazy like I had set my anticipations to be, it's still interesting to see how much hackers can get out of some of the simplest technology used to this day. Perhaps some of that is because of the necessity of secrecy when doing these attacks, and therefore people are more easily trusting of older technology being safer and less commonly used for malicious intent, an assumption hackers have been quick to exploit.

## Techniques employed

One of the reasons hackers use sub-standard devices to make online requests to find vulnerabilities is to avoid detection or at least tracking. However, that brings into topic that what they do has to avoid detection somehow.

Many online hackers that deal with standard HTTP have developed some techniques with curl. An example is Header Spoofing, where to mimic a real client to firewalls and other filters, the hacker will deliveratebly add all standard headers a request would require to be sent through the internet or a browser, such as the `User-Agent`, `Accept`, and `Referer`, among others. However, they are smart enough to also automate their tools to generate random headers every so often to appear as separate users to the services they're calling. Another header that is often changed is `X-Forwarded-For` to mask the request's original IP address. This, however, isn't always possible, as it requires CORS to have lax requirements to even be considered.

Another minor technique used is randomizing attack and request intervals. This makes it harder to pin down sources and intent of the many requests done during the span of an attack. I actually believe I had something along these lines happen to me with my JWT Pizza code during the Chaos testing phase of class. While I was waiting for the Chaos test to kick in, I had a sudden spike of endpoint calls, which were all seemingly random endpoints trying to be accessed. However, what I remembered is that there were only a couple of spikes, one big one, and then two smaller ones with separation. Speaking from experience, it can be somewhat hard to know when something of this nature is a direct attack or not, as hackers also know when it's best to stop to prevent more attention. After those three spikes, there were no more.

The technique I looked into that I found the most intersting is the usage of Steganographic Channels. Essentially, it works in a similar way to other kinds of injection attacks. However, the data hidden within the package is store within HTTP headers, cookies, or even image files send over the internet. A common practice is to make the payload as small as possible, often limiting to a single command injection per request. One of the most common ways to do this is to encode the injected command in base64 encodings or to inject executable commands that are run when extracting data from an image file when downloading it and the browser decodes it. There are legitimate stories of people downloading images from blogs or social media profiles that contained C2 instructions, or commands and control techniques. These technique is the main reason browsers will scan a file's downloadable contents before initializing the actual download, to at least try to find some of these malicious instructions. This becomes harder the larger the file as then it becomes almost impossible to find exactly what needs to be found and find the needle in the haystack.

I've been interested in how some hackers do what they do, and this has opened my mind to some of the very simple things that are required to try to take down a system with only clever engineering, scripts, and simple technology that will accomplish only simple goals that hackers will use to their advantage.
